1890.
Sept. 26.
Lake Umbagog, Maine.
  Early morning clear and mild with soft S.W. wind. By 10 A.M.
clouds began to gather and by 3 P.M. it was raining.
[margin]Woodcock
Shooting[/margin]
  Starting at 8 A.M. Henshaw and I drove directly to Ferrin's 
and leaving the horse in his barn began at once to look for Wood-
cock. We tried first the dense thicket of young spruces & arbor
vitae in the intervale where we killed two Woodcock & left another
on the 23rd. It held two birds this morning both of which we shot.
We next beat a cover of poplars and birches growing thinly on a
knoll but found nothing. At the farther end I heard a Warbler in
some alders uttering, at intervals, a chirp which sounded at once
strange and familiar. By "screeping" a few times I called it into 
sufficiently plain view to see that is was non of the species of
common occurrence here and at once shot it when to my great delight
I found that it was an Orange-crown (Helminthophila celata) a bird
which as far as I known*[know] has never before been taken in this region.
Thus on two successive days I have added a new Warbler to the Lake
Umbagog fauna: My Orange-crown proved a female. It was in fresh
autumn plumage and although hard shot with the Woodcock charge (#10)
made a very good skin. It was accompanied by a Kinglet (Regulus
calendula).
[margin]Orange
crowned
Warbler
shot.[/margin]
  Following the wood edge along a little farther we came to ano-
ther knoll similar to the first but with a dense undergrowth of
bushes among the young poplars and, on the lower side, a belt of
spruces, beneath which the ground was wet and springy. Still low-
er down the spruces gave way to alders which formed an extensive &
tangled Swamp. The entire tract of poplars, spruces and alders
covered a space of perhaps ten acres.