Lake Umbagog, Maine
1886
Saw only a Whistler, two large Ducks (probably Black Ducks)
feeding inshore, a Kingfisher, a Great Blue Heron, and sev-
eral flocks of Robins feeding on the mud-flats. 
  Forgot to mention a short hunt for Woodcock
on the hill behind the house before starting. Flushed a
single very large bird four times. I got only one shot at 
him and missed. 
October 15. Clear with strong north-west winds. Spent the 
forenoon on the marsh where we flushed four Snipe, killing 
them all. After dinner Melvin went up into the pasture and 
started two Woodcock, killing one. After his return we 
drove to Morse's on Upton Hill and beat the ground there,
flushing six Woodcock along the brook in a strip of alders 
only about fifty yards long by ten yards wide. We killed
five of these birds, but made rather bad shooting, missing
several good shots. Next drove to Bragg's on the Andover
road and finished there beating the alders about sunset,
having seen nothing but one grouse which Melvin killed. 
Sparrows are very numerous, Robins the same; heard one Flick-
er.
[margin]Snipe 
shooting[/margin]
[margin]Woodcock 
shoot-
ing[/margin]
October 16. Cloudy and cold with almost a gale from the 
north-west and frequent flurries of snow. We devoted the 
forenoon to the hill behind the Lake House, beating for
Woodcock. Birches blank. Flushed two Cock in spruces by
the Lake shore. I shot the first, but Melvin and I both 
missed the second. Melvin saw a Mink. 
  We went down river after dinner. Beat the