Lake Umbagog, Maine
1886
Next discovered four Scaup Ducks off the north end of Great 
Island, but they proved excessively shy. 
  In the gut above the island started five Shel-
drakes. In the upper part of the Sweat Cove were six Shel-
drakes and as many more Black Ducks. We took stations, 
sending the guides up to drive them out. The Sheldrakes 
flew over Melvin, Three Black Ducks over me, all rather too
high up. We both failed to bring down any of them. While 
here saw a Marsh Hawk on the mud-flats rising and settling
many times like a Gull and picking at something in the mud.
It was an adult male. 
  Lunched here, the guides cooking two Ducks.
Deer tracks very numerous. Saw an Eagle, a flock of Pine
Linnets, two Fox Sparrows, and heard a Picordis arcticus.
On the way down Melvin shot a Yellow Leg (T.melanoleuca)
near the mouth of the Cambridge and also started a Rail on
the Snipe ground. He said it was the smallest Rail he had
ever seen but he saw no white on wings. Probably a small
P.carolina. He shot one and I two musk-rats. He found no
Snipe, but one rose and flew over us in the twilight. 
October 19. Clear, forsty at sunrise, the woods and meadows
as white as snow with hoar frost. Middle of the day still
and warm. Spent the day up the Cambridge. Melvin started 
first with Alva and Lumen and I spent an hour beating the 
Snipe ground. Did not start a single Snipe. Heard Shore
Larks and one Titlark piping over the mud-flats. A white-
bellied Nuthatch calling in the woods. A Browsed Grackle
[margin]Deer
tracks[/margin]
[margin]musk-
rats[/margin]
[margin]Horned 
Lark[/margin]