THE PROBLEM OF PATTERN 5 
differs from the non-organismic. In the first place the 
organismic pattern is fundamentally a molar, not a 
molecular or atomic pattern, for it involves regions con- 
sisting of many molecules usually of many different kinds. 
The pattern of protoplasm is apparently submolecular, 
molecular, and colloidal, but the organism involves some- 
thing more, viz., an "organization" of the protoplasm 
into different molar regions of different constitution or 
structure. Since these different regions or organs are 
dynamically active and yet the organism is an orderly 
whole, physicochemical relations of some sort must 
exist between the different regions. These relations 
again are not interatomic or intermolecular, like the 
relations of ordinary chemical reactions, nor are they 
like the relations between colloid particles. They are 
inter-regional relations involving distances of much 
greater order of magnitude than any of the relations in 
purely protoplasmic pattern, so that they apparently 
involve some sort of action at a distance or some means 
of communication. 
In short the organismic pattern is of a very different 
order of magnitude from the protoplasmic pattern, 
involving molar dimensions far beyond those of any 
protoplasmic constituent. It is a differentiation and 
integration of different regions of protoplasm or of 
different cells or cell groups and it evidently cannot be 
interpreted in the same terms as protoplasmic pattern. 
It may exist within the limits of a single cell or it may 
involve millions of cells: it may be evanescent, tem- 
porary, or readily modified by change in external 
conditions, or it may be persistent to a high degree, but 
in all cases it represents a pattern of a different order of 
